phm; Pharmacology; Anti-Adrenergic; SCQ
A 60-year-old female patient started on a new antihypertensive medication recently. Her blood pressure seems to be under control, but she complains of fatigue, drowsiness, and fainting when she gets up from the bed (orthostatic hypotension). Which of the following drugs is she most likely taking?; Metoprolol.; Propranolol.; Prazosin.; Clonidine.; isoprenaline; C
A 30-year-old male patient was brought to the ER with amphetamine overdose. He presented with high blood pressure and arrhythmia. Which of the following is correct regarding this patient?; Amphetamine can activate all types of adrenergic receptors.; β-Blockers are the ideal antidotes for amphetamine poisoning.; α-Blockers can normalize the blood pressure in this patient.; Miosis could be a possible symptom of amphetamine poisoning.; None of the Above; A
A new antihypertensive drug was tested in an animal model of hypertension. The drug when given alone reduces blood pressure in the animal. Norepinephrine when given in the presence of this drug did not cause any significant change in blood pressure or heart rate in the animal. The new drug is similar to which of the following drugs in terms of its pharmacological mechanism of action?; Prazosin.; Clonidine.; Propranolol.; Metoprolol.; Carvedilol.; E
A β-blocker was prescribed for hypertension in a female asthma patient. After about a week of treatment, the asthma attacks got worse, and the patient was asked to stop taking the β-blocker. Which of the following β-blockers would you suggest as an alternative in this patient that is less likely to worsen her asthma?; Propranolol.; Metoprolol.; Labetalol.; Carvedilol.; None of the Above; B
A 70-year-old male needs to be treated with an α-blocker for overflow incontinence due to his enlarged prostate. Which of the following drugs would you suggest in this patent that will not affect his blood pressure significantly?; Prazosin.; Doxazosin.; Phentolamine.; Tamsulosin.; Terazosin.; D